--- PAGE 1 ---
Data Description 
 
There are four data files. Here is a brief description of the files. 
 
File Description 
Data Science Jobs 
 
Around 1600 rows of sample data describing the number of 
jobs posted by the leading companies including details like 
salary, experience and so on in the years 2024-25 
Analytics Jobs 
 
Around 15800 rows of sample data describing job postings in 
analytics area including details like job description, 
designation , location salary and so on in the years 2024-25 
JDS Skill Traits 
(Junior Data Scientists) 
 
Around 140 rows of sample data of a company’s skillset data 
of its junior or entry level data scientists. The data presents 
measured technical skillsets and outcome like promotion or 
salary hike (high/low). 
SDS Personality Traits 
(Senior Data Scientists) 
 
 
Around 160 rows of sample data of a company trait analysis 
data of its senior and customer facing level data scientists. 
The data presents measured personality traits and outcome 
like overall success (high/low). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--- PAGE 2 ---
Data Dictionaries 
File: Data Science Jobs 
Column Brief Description 
reference_no Row identification number or ID 
company_name Name of the recruiting company 
job_title Title of the job 
min_experience Minimum required experience 
avg_salary Average salary offered across the job postings for the company 
min_salary Minimum salary offered across the job postings for the company 
max_salary Maximum salary offered across the job postings for the company 
num_of_jobs Number of posting by the company 
 
File: Analytics Jobs 
Column Brief Description 
s_no Row identification number or ID 
experience Years of experience required for the job 
job_description Typical description of the job 
job_desig Designation or position of the job role 
job_type Type or classification of the job 
key_skills Key skills required for the job 
location Geo location of the job requirement 
salary Salary offered 
 
File: JDS Skill Traits 
Column Brief Description 
id Row identification number or ID 
big_data_skills Average score on data skills , summarized on a scale of 1-5 based on 
multiple tests, training cum evaluations and feedback. 
maths-stats_skills Average score on quantitative, maths and statistics skills, summarized 
on a scale of 1-5 based on multiple tests, training cum evaluations and 
feedback. 
coding_skills Average score on coding skills on SAS, Python, SQL and so on, 
summarized on a scale of 1-5 based on multiple tests, training cum 
evaluations and feedback. 
ai_and_ml_skills Average score on newer concepts of artificial intelligence and machine 
learning, summarized on a scale of 1-5 based on multiple tests, training 
cum evaluations and feedback. 
dashboard_and_storytelling_skills Average score on visualization, reporting and storytelling, summarized 
on a scale of 1-5 based on multiple tests, training cum evaluations and 
feedback. 
salary_hike_high_or_low A binary variable for performance-based salary hike 1= high, 0 = low 
 
 
--- PAGE 3 ---
File: SDS Personality Traits 
The file is based on The Big Five Personality Model (the Five-Factor model) and Eysenck 
Personality Questionnaire (EPQ). 
Column Brief Description 
id Row identification number or ID 
neuroticism It measures the neuroticism which is a fundamental personality 
trait within the "Big Five" model characterized by a chronic 
tendency to experience negative emotions, such as anxiety, 
depression, anger, and self-doubt. The measurement is presented 
on a normalized score. Higher numbers represent high levels or 
values. 
extraversion It measures the extraversion which represents a, spectrum of 
social engagement, ranging from high energy, outgoing, and 
assertive (extraverted) to quiet, reserved, and solitary 
(introverted) behaviours. The measurement is presented on a 
normalized score. Higher numbers represent high levels or values. 
openness_to_experience Openness to experience in the Big Five model measures a 
person's level of creativity, curiosity, and willingness to embrace 
new ideas, experiences, and unconventional thinking. The 
measurement is presented on a normalized score. Higher 
numbers represent high levels or values. 
agreeableness Agreeableness in the Big Five personality model measures an 
individual's tendency to be compassionate, cooperative, trusting, 
and empathetic rather than suspicious or antagonistic. The 
measurement is presented on a normalized score. Higher 
numbers represent high levels or values. 
conscientiousness Conscientiousness in the Big Five model represents a person's 
tendency to be organized, responsible, hardworking, and goal 
directed. The measurement is presented on a normalized score. 
Higher numbers represent high levels or values. 
success_ classification_ 
high_low 
It presents high and low classification of success levels within the 
organization. 
 
 
 
 
 